This is my version of a classic Bolognese sauce.  I never end up making the same one twice so riff as you see fit.  Measurements and times are (badly) estimated so be your own rabbi.

Ingredients

1lb of ground beef, pref 80/20
1lb of ground pork (or another leaner meat like veal)
1.5-2c of carrots diced (3-4 med carrots)
1.5-2c of white/yellow onion diced (1 onion the size of a baseball)
28oz of good crushed tomatoes (stay away from brands that use calcium chloride)
16oz of beef stock or broth
3oz of good tomato paste
Garlic (fresh or powder)
Oregano (dired or fresh)
Basil (dired or fresh)
2-3 Bay Leaf
Red Pepper Flake
Salt
Black Pepper
Neutral Cooking Oil

For making Spaghetti Bolognese

Good oli
Butter or cream 
A hard Italian cheese of some kind

Equpitment

5-7QT enamled dutch oven with lid
Spider or Slotted Spoon
Something to break up meat and stir the sauce
Heat source that can go low enough to simmer
Food-safe bowl
Blender of some sort, immersion preferred

Method

Heat dutch oven over high heat until rocket hot, reduce heat to medium-high, and add enough cooking oil to cover the bottom.  Brown beef and pork in batches breaking it up as it cooks.  You do not need to break it into fine pieces at this point, but you want good coverage of the bottom of the pan.  The goal here isn't to cook the meat but to brown one side of it and start building a fond in the pan.  Remove meat with slotted spoon or spider to a bowl and reserve. Be careful to not burn the bits that stick to the bottom.  Heat control is critial here: you want to get good browning but not have a pan so hot that it burns.  To get good browning you need a hot pan.  Don't overcrowd it.

Once all the meat is browned, toss in the carrot and onion with a pinch of salt.  Stir and sweat until onion is translucent and carrot is slightly soft.  It will release liquid as it cooks and lots of stirring and scraping should be performed to scrape up the fond and coat the veggies with it.  Medium to Medium-high heat is best for this.  Make space in center of the pan.  If using fresh garlic, add and cook 1-2 minutes until fragrant.  Add garlic paste to center of pan and spread out and cook 1-2 minutes until fragrant.  Stir cooked tomato paste into veg and cook another minute or two stirring.

Add crushed tomatoes and bring to boil, reduce to a gentle simmer for 15-20 minutes, partially covered.  The goal here is to soften the veg to the point where it just falls apart.  Once everything is soft, use an immersion blender to make a smooth liquid.  Add back meat, add broth or stock until everything is covered.  You can sub some white or red wine for part of the stock.  Add basil, oregano, red pepper flake, black pepper, bay leaf to your best judgement.  I'm guessing 3 big pinches of dried herbs, 10 grinds of black pepper, and a big pinch of pepper flake.  Don't try to flavor to taste at this point, it doesn't taste anything like the final product yet.

Partially cover (I use aluminum foil to prop the lid up) and slow simmer the sauce for 3-5 hours until reduce and the meat has fallen apart into a fine texture.  Once the sauce has hit the desired consistency, taste.  It likely needs a ton of salt (2-3 bit pinches).  Continue to taste and adjust seasoning, including herbs and black pepper until you're happy.  If the sauce is very acidic add a little sugar (< 1/2tsp to start).  If it's very sweet, add just a bit of red or white wine vinegar.  Remember, you're making this for yourself so make it to your preference.  

Spaghetti Bolognese

Cook thick spaghetti or buccatini noodles in salted water for one minute less then the package directions for al dente.  You want the noodles to finish in the sauce.  

Now, the next step is to dress the pasta, depending on how many pans you want to dirty.  

One-pot method:
Drain spaghetti (reserve a bit of pasta water) and return to pan.  Add one good ladle of bologenese sauce for each serving of pasta.  Add a good nob of butter (1T / serving) or cream (1-2T / serving).   Continiously stir (or stir and toss) over low heat until butter is melted and emulsified into sauce (or cream is mixed in) and the pasta has finished cooking.  If it's looking too dry, add pasta water in small amounts to keep the desired consistency (and to help the pasta finish cooking).
Classic restaurant method:
In a separate pan over low heat, heat bolognese (1 good ladle of sauce per serving) until hot.  Mount 1T of coldish butter for each serving of sauce, one tablespoon at a time stirring and tossing the sauce until butter is incorporated before adding the next tablespoon.  Once sauce is orange and glossy, add pasta and a splash of pasta water and stir (or stir and toss) to coat pasta.  Continue to mix and toss until pasta is done and well coated.  Add additional (small amounts of) pasta water if pan seems too dry.

Once pasta is done, portion and finish with grated/microplaned hard Italian cheese of choice and a drizzle of good olive oil.  Enjoy.

Tips, Comments, Etc.

  - You can add an equal part of celery to the carrot and onion if you want.  It'll bulk up the sauce a bit but not really do anything for flavor.  Make sure to dice it very fine because the hairs suck if you don't.
  - You could probs sub turkey for the ground pork.  I'm not sure anything else would really work.
  - The actual base sauce is dairy-free.
  - I like to add some MSG to amp up the tomato flavor.  I usually do this at the end when I'm adjusting flavors.
  - At some point you need to fish the bay leafs out.  Do it when you want, it doesn't change the flavor much.
  - If using fresh basil, I like to take a few big sprigs and add them stem and all at the start of the simmer then fish them out once the sauce is done and finish with chiffonaded fresh basil.
  - Save your parm rinds, cut one down and toss it in during the start of the simmer. The sauce won't be dairy free but it will be tasty.
  - Adding a few glugs of good olive oil at the end can really round out the sauce.  I'll generally add some if I doesn't seem like there's much fat in the sauce from the meat.
  
